1. SQL - Structured Query Language(seperate from programming or markup languages)

2. SQL Has many variations or softwares like MySQL , PostgreSQL , etc...

3. SQL comes under the domain of Relational Data Base Management System (RDBMS) of Computer Science subject.

4. We are using MySQL as it is an industry standard and the most widely used DBMS (Data Base Management System).

5. In DBMS we deal with storing data in bulk inside multiple seperate tables and these tables are further stored in one particular
   database. EG : You can have multiple databases like school.db , market.db , hospital.db , etc... and in each of these .db files
   can be multiple tables having multiple rows and columns of data , lets say , school.db database file has two tables namely , 
   student table and teacher table and both of these tables are like excel sheets having rows & columns of student and teacher data ,
   similarly , market.db can have multiple tables like Grocery Table , Fashion Table , etc... and so on
   Hence each of these .db files act like seperate folders which manage their own respective tables.

6. But unlike the normal file handling offered by programming languages (EG :open() function in Python for file handling) which can 
   only be used for storing the data permanently , MySQL allows you to not only store data permanently in a structured tabular format ,
   it also password-protects this data and also allows to access this data remotely ( from another PC :- Online ) or locally
   (from own PC :- Offline ) Provided MySQL is installed on a remote or local server and that .db file is present on that server.

7. Local Server or localhost whose IP address is  127.0.0.1  is the same for every PC , Mobile Phone or Any Device Using Internet as
   A localhost is used for offline development purposes , meaning for testing , debugging , backend or headless communication with
   localhost or running a server-based application ( EG : Jupyter-Notebook runs on the localhost  127.0.0.1:8888 where 8888 is the 
   default port-number for Jupyter-Notebook to run alone on that port)